- Reuse
- Recycle
- Rot

The long term goal should be to have nothing to put in recycling and nothing to put into a black bin bag, this is the goal of zero waste.

### Recycling
#### Recycling basics:
- Watchout for contamination of plastics in the recycling.
- Separate recycling even if you don't live in an area where this is enforced and take it to a recycling centre.
- Carboard, paper, plastic, metals, glass, food waste, biodegradable (used tissues / kitchen towels), recycle instores and non-recyclable. (Some of these aren't available at kerb side, will need to go to a recycling centre).
- Giving packaging back to stores in the carrier bag bin (ones with the patch saying: "Recycle with bags at large supermarkets").
- Give the unrecyclable to terracycle (can cost you money).
- You can go to supermarkets and recycle the soft plastics (they will have something outside for you to put it in).

Print off the recycling guides from online (pages: 4-12 in Cardiff and Vale of Glamorgan) or download the pdf (can be used on phone, laptop, tablet, etc...).

#### Bins:
- Plastic
- Metal
- Glass
- Paper
- Carboard
- Food waste
- Backyard waste
- Batteries
- Textile

#### Composting
- General compost at home can be used for food waste and garden waste.
- Banana skins to create acidic water.
- Crush / blend eggshells into powder to create calcium rich water.
- Used tissues can decompose.
- Worm farm for dog poo and food scraps (with compostable poo bags(signified by being the colour green))

### Replacements Types
- Reusable e.g. silicone, stainless steel, etc...
- Alternatives e.g. bamboo, sugarcane, recycled, etc...

### Zero Waste
- No packaging at all - Most ideal to least ideal solution (Zero waste / Low waste).
- Get your meat from the local butchers.
- Fruit and veg from the groceries using your own packaging.
- Zero waste stores are recommended for your general goods.
- Charity shops for clothes and toys.

#### Recyclable or biodegradable bags examples:
- Cotton reusable bags
- Organic Cotton Mesh Produce Bags

### 

#### Tissues
For biodegradable tissues and you could put it into personal compost unit or equivalent.

#### Reusable replacements:
- Handkerchief to replace facial tissues.
- Reusable cloth to replace kitchen towels.
- Reusable washing cloth to replace sponges.
- Integrated bidet to replace the need for toilet paper.
- Xylospongium (Sponge washed with water and vinegar might need to be bleached) to replace toilet paper.

#### Alternatives replacement:
- Compostable facial (tissues / toilet / kitchen):
- Bamboo or recycled instead of wood fibre.
