#### Hot water:
- Electric Boilers - Electric or induction. Disadvantage is that it uses alot of water.
- Electric showers and electric water heaters for taps
- Solar Thermal Panels - Heats itself using the sun to heat hot water.

#### Electric Heating options:
- Electric radiators - Can be turned in certain rooms and scheduled.
- Oil filled radiators
- Heat Pumps - Uses less water, can be geo-thermal.
- Insulation - Window security film, Window Insulation Film, window double to triole glazes, cavity wall insulation, room compartmentalization (trapping heat in rooms), door draft excluder cushion, draft excluder tape (windows and doors), reflective bubble foil loft insulation and loft insulation.
- Infared heating - Good for heating the person.
- Solar air-heater - 
- Air curtains - 
- Reverse a ceiling fan

#### Passive heating
- Solar chimney - 

#### Other heating
- Biomass Boilers - Are also an option, they are more traditional in that they use fire to heat up water instead. They can be a cheaper option and they are also off grid.
- Heat recovery ventilation

#### Heating tips:
- Wear lots of warm clothes and lots of layers
- Using tents inside in the winter with many people sleeping inside.
- Keep the people warm not the whole building.
- Lots of people in one area makes the area warmer.
- Move people to a smaller area with less places for heat to escape.
- Carpets, thermal curtains, draft stoppers and insulated windows.
- Reflecting foil behind radiators
- You can tighten pvc and upvc windows (white framed windows and doors)
- In daytime when the sun is out, open up the curtains and blinds

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ckiHb55Tb-c
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z_2tM7KA5rQ
