## Home electric generation
Types of renewable electricity generation:
Solar
Wind
Hydro
Bio-energy

# Solar / Photovoltaics
Solar is best in a place that faces in a direction that is hit by the sun most of the day and avoids shade.
On grid battery will help throughout the night and incase of a blackout. Bonus if you can send extra electric to the grid you will be able to make money through SEG.
Recommend lightning defence on roof.

Solar panels
Solar roofing tiles / slates
Portable solar panels

Free solar panels - Owned by a company, makes money for the company from electricity put back onto the grid, reduces electric bills but can cause problems if you try to sell the house as the panels are tied to the homeowner rather than the home. This is an option available to people who can't afford solar panels but want to source their electricity renewably.

Advantages:
No moving parts which means less maintenance costs.
If you have more than you need then you can send them back onto the grid and that will be renewable energy for the grid that someone else to use as well as get paid some money for that (SEG).
Pays itself back by the bills you don't need to pay (SEG also helps).

Considerations:
Get an on-grid battery system with ability to draw from the grid.
Make sure to remember to ensure the roof can hold at the structs as the roof might need to be reinforced to hold the new weight.
Faulty wiring can cause electrical fires.
Lithium batteries if exposed to oxygen can quickly set alight.
Lithium batteries have major problems 
In case of a fire you will need to quickly flick off the red safety handle on the circuit breaker panel.
Watch out for falling objects e.g. acorns, berries, branches, etc
Dust or sand can blow onto panels and reduce efficiency requiring cleaning.
Birds can get burnt or blinded by solar.
How will they be recycled at end of life.
If your roof is flat then the solar panels will have to be placed on a slant.
Black solar panels are recommeneded as they are less visible.

### Wind
Wind turbines need to clear the effects of the roof to be effective. The higher they are the more effective. 

Wind turbines
Ridge blade turbines
Vertical axis turbines
Honeywell turbines
Nautilus shaped turbines

Disadvantages:
They can be noisy for neighbours.
Vibrations in house for some designs.
Lightning strike risk increases.
Moving parts need more maintenance e.g. grease, oil, breakage, etc...

### Other
Hydro / tidal for personal use is usually available to most people but worth a look into.

### Considerations 
Have a qualified electrician install the most important parts to avoid danger.
Installers need to make sure that the roof doesn't have a leak as a result of installing solar panels.
Batteries are recommended to store energy for use overnight (avoid lithium if possible).
People have discussed the need for a hybrid system.
