- Be careful with burning yourself out as a result of constant decision making.
- Don't oppress yourself for every little action and try to be as efficient as possible instead plan out the changes at first then change the small habits with focus at your own pace making sure that you focus on the bigger changes.
- Don't get yourself too nutrientantly deficient (black bags under eyes, mental fog, fatigue)(this can lead into burnout), its worse that you aren't able to focus on this.
- Do NOT get to overwhelmed by the thinking about the minor details bring it back to the bigger picture.
- Do NOT get fixated on zero waste, remember to do electric, water, minimalism.

### Make Sacrifices
- Give up crisps and chocolate (the wrappers are not recyclable (terracycle is an option))
- Give up petrol/diesel car (if possible switch to hybrid or electric)
- Give up going on vacations and holidays (long drives and airplanes)
- Give up buying things online
- Give up buying cheap things move to alternatives more costly green alternatives
- Give up buying new clothes and buy used instead
- Give up electrical appliances use and return to traditional ways of living (unless you get solar panels)

### Solutions Thinking
When thinking about finding a better solution to solve a resource usage problem:
- Tribal solution / culture solution / celtic solution
- Technological solution / civilization solution / roman solution

Examples of Technological solutions:
- Solar panel system and installation
- Water harvesting or Atmospheric water generator
- Electrification of gas stoves and gas boilers

Examples of Tribal solutions:
- Not using electrical appliances.
- Drinking from the fresh water spring.
- Cooking with wood fire.

When coming up with a solution to a problem it is always a good idea to classify in one or more ways:
- Bruteforce solution - Not optimal or even an ideal solution but at least it is a solution.
- Heuristic solution - Which means good enough, not quite optimal but it does the job.
- Optimal solution - The most efficient and effective solution.

When finding truth, the dialectical method is used. One of the most common forms of dialectic is Hegelianism: 
- Thesis is the initial idea presented.
- Anti-thesis is the challenge or contradiction to the thesis.
- Synthesis is the resolution or combination of the thesis and antithesis.

### Minimizing usage
- Turn down the boiler temperature settings
- Turn down the freezer temperature
- Replace lightbulbs with LED lightbulbs (0.5 - 3 Wattage light bulbs are available)
- Remember to turn off the water taps and lights when not in use.
- Cut soaps into small squares and place them in boxes so that they can be separated and used when needed. This prevents the water from destroying them quickly when in use.
- Electric timers - Turn off wifi and devices that use energy at certain times.
- Only boil the kettle with as much water as you need, this will prevent the kettle from boiling more than it needs.
- Washing line rain cover so that you can use a washing line even if its going to rain.
- Purchase Tumble dryer ball's to reduce drying time.
