- Reuse
- Recycle
- Rot

The short term goal should be to not have black bin bags, this is the goal of low waste.
The long term goal should be to have nothing to put in recycling, this is the goal of zero waste.

### Reuse - Zero Waste
The core of making a habit sustainable usually comes down to just the question of can you reuse it again so you don't have to purchase it again.

- No packaging at all - Most ideal to least ideal solution (Zero waste / Low waste).
- Get your meat from the local butchers.
- Fruit and veg from the groceries using your own packaging.
- Zero waste stores are recommended for your general goods.
- Charity shops for clothes and toys.
- Used / thrift stores for clothes and toys.
- Online stores .e.g. gumtree, freecycle

#### Reusable Packaging
Recycle or biodegrade reusable packaging at end of item life.
- Glass / plastic containers / jars
- Glass / plastic canisters
- 

#### Recyclable or biodegradable bags examples:
- Cotton reusable bags
- Organic Cotton Mesh Produce Bags
- Cotton Muslin Drawstring Bags

#### Replacements Types
- Reusable e.g. silicone, stainless steel, etc...
- Alternatives e.g. bamboo, sugarcane, recycled, etc..

#### Reusable replacements for tissues:
- Handkerchief to replace facial tissues.
- Reusable cloth to replace kitchen towels.
- Reusable washing cloth to replace sponges.
- Integrated bidet to replace the need for toilet paper.
- Xylospongium (Sponge washed with water and vinegar might need to be bleached) to replace toilet paper.

#### Reusable Food Wraps
They can also be brought in rolls and cut to many different sizes.
- Beeswax food wraps
- Cedar wraps
- Silicone food covers

#### Reusable Kitchen Items
- Reusable silicon baking tray
- Reusable straws

#### Reusable Cleaning (DIY cleaning solutions)
- Make your own cleaning products with your own spray bottle usually with a combination of white vinegar, lemon, baking soda.

#### Reusable Other
- Reusable water bottle e.g metal, glass
- Resuable Terrarium Liner Bedding

### Recycle
#### Recycling basics:
- Watchout for contamination of plastics in the recycling.
- Separate recycling even if you don't live in an area where this is enforced and take it to a recycling centre.
- Giving packaging back to stores in the carrier bag bin (ones with the patch saying: "Recycle with bags at large supermarkets").
- You can go to supermarkets and recycle the soft plastics (they will have something outside for you to put it in).
- Give the unrecyclable to terracycle (can cost you money).

Print off the recycling guides from online (pages: 4-12 in Cardiff and Vale of Glamorgan) or download the pdf (can be used on phone, laptop, tablet, etc...).

#### Bins:
- Plastic
- Metal
- Glass
- Paper
- Carboard
- Food waste
- Garden waste
- Batteries
- Textile
- Non-Recyclable, non-food waste biodegradables e.g. Tissues (custom designated bin)

### Rot - Composting
Composting at home can be used as a way to get rid of food waste and garden waste.

#### Types of Composting
- Bokashi (Effective Micro Organisms Composting) - Composts with Bacteria, Creates acidic enviroment that is bad for worms. Can get a filter to prevent odors. Good for apartments.
- Worm farm (Vermi composting) - Worm farm good for dog poo and food scraps (with compostable poo bags(signified by being the colour green)). Worms don't like acidic enviroment.
- Hotbin (Hot composting) - Exposed to the air and heat to help compost faster.
- Lomi Composter (Kitchen appliance)

- Direct Composting (in-ground composting)
- Tumbler Composting (A form of hot composting)
- Combination Composting (Compot Composting)
- Commercial Composting
- Mechanical Composting

#### Composting tips
- Used tissues can decompose.

#### Other ways to get rid of food scraps
- Banana skins into a jar with water to create acidic water.
- Crush / blend eggshells into powder to create calcium rich water.
